Add runbooks (#92)
mulesoft/docs-service-mesh: modules/ROOT/pages/troubleshoot-api-provisioning-issues.adoc

endif::[]
:keywords: service mesh, microservices, API provisioning issues, troubleshooting

> After you provision an adapter, you must create an API, to which you then bind the service. This section provides possible causes for issues that might occur when you try to create your API, and describes how to troubleshoot these errors:

Reviewer: Per our style reference, do not refer to "this section" or use any similar self-referential wording (see "self reference").
Here is a suggestion, but you can probably do better:
```suggestion
After you provision an adapter, you must create an API to bind the service to, which might require you to troubleshoot the following errors: 
```

Reviewer 2: Done! Thanks!

* <<client-secret-incorrectly-configured,Client Secret is Incorrectly Configured>>

> * <<provision-call-failed,API Provisioning Failure>>

Reviewer: Are these links really necessary, given that the texts about them immediately follow?

Suggestion for incorporating these into the previous text: 

"After you provision an adapter, you must create an API to bind the service to, which might require you to troubleshoot errors involving the client secret or API provisioning."

Reviewer: Also, are these titles verbatim error message text?
Because "Is" should otherwise be init. capped in a title.

Reviewer 2: Changed the case for "is" but kept the links above. There are troubleshooting topics with tons of sections, and I want it easier for the user to see what errors are covered and make it easily scannable too. :-)

[[client-secret-incorrectly-configured]]

> == Client Secret is Incorrectly Configured

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Troubleshoot the Client Secret is Incorrectly Configured Error
```

Reviewer 2: I changed it to "Client Secret Incorrectly Configured" to keep the consistency.

endif::[]
:keywords: service mesh, microservices, API provisioning issues, troubleshooting

After you provision an adapter, you must create an API to bind the service to, which might require you to troubleshoot the following errors: 

* <<client-secret-incorrectly-configured,Client secret incorrectly configured>>
* <<provision-call-failed,API provisioning failure>>

[[client-secret-incorrectly-configured]]

> == Client Secret is Incorrectly Configured

Reviewer: Verbs are always init cap it titles and headings:
```suggestion
== Client Secret Is Incorrectly Configured
```
OR
```suggestion
== Incorrectly Configured Client Secret
```
if you want to turn error message text into a parallel topic heading

Reviewer 2: Done! Thanks!

. Delete the API.
. Resolve the username and password error.
. Re-create the API.  

[[provision-call-failed]]
== Provision call failed

> When you create an API, the Asset(in exchange) and/or API(in API Manager) are not successfuly created on the Anypoint Platform

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you create an API, the Asset (in Exchange) and/or API (in API Manager) are not successfully created on the Anypoint Platform
```

Also, do you mind to clarify when we are talking about API provision and API instances?

```suggestion
When you create an API provision, the Asset (in Exchange) and/or API instance (in API Manager) are not successfully created on the Anypoint Platform
```

> == Causes

Reviewer 3: Same here:

```suggestion
=== Causes
```

> When you provision an API by using Service Mesh, but the Asset(in Exchange) and/or API instance (in API Manager) were not successfully created on the Anypoint Platform

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you provision an API by using Service Mesh, but the Asset (in Exchange) and/or API instance (in API Manager) were not successfully created on the Anypoint Platform
```

Reviewer 2: Done! Thanks!

This error can occur if:
 

> * You are trying to re-create an asset on exchange after having deleted it more than seven days ago.

Reviewer 3: This is not the problem, if you create an asset, delete it immediately and try to use it again after 7 days it should work as expected.

The real problem is if you had that asset **live** for more than 7 days and then you deleted it. 

```suggestion
* You are trying to re-create an asset on Exchange that existed more than seven days before being deleted.
```

[source,text,linenums]
----
DATE                   MESSAGE
2020-05-29T17:12:36Z   Error provisioning ServiceInstance of ClusterServiceClass (K8S: "1c3b2100-5cdc-49ea-9423-dd7170e674b4" ExternalName: "anypoint-platform-api-instance") at ClusterServiceBroker "service-mesh-incluster-broker": Status: 400; ErrorMessage: Bad Request; Description: version: should match pattern "^\d+\.\d+\.\d+(-.+)?$" (ID: 49724b5d-7fad-4cc3-980e-695c2e47b383); ResponseError: <nil>
----

In case there is no information above, you will have to run `kubectl describe serviceinstances <replace_with_api_name> -n <replace_with_namespace>`. In the `status` section of the resource, you will find the error message explaining the issue. For example: 

[source,text,linenums]
----
Error provisioning ServiceInstance of ClusterServiceClass (K8S: "1c3b2100-5cdc-49ea-9423-dd7170e674b4"
ExternalName: "anypoint-platform-api-instance") at ClusterServiceBroker "service-mesh-incluster-broker": Status: 410; ErrorMessage: Gone; Description: Error from Exchange: There is no asset matching given parameters. (ID: 79d0cc7f-9969-477b-816d-c822916c0290); ResponseError: <nil>' reason: ProvisionCallFailed
----

> In above case, the error has to do with the fact that you are trying to re-create an asset on exchange after having deleted it more than seven days ago. Exchange doesn't allow that operation, so you need to provide a new assetId to create a new asset.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In above case, the error has to do with the fact that you are trying to re-create an asset on Exchange that existed more than seven days before being delete. Exchange doesn't allow that operation, so you need to provide a new `assetId` to create a new asset.  
```

AFAIK changing the version also works.

. Delete the API.
. Resolve the username and password error.
. Re-create the API.  

[[provision-call-failed]]

> == API Provisioning Failure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Troubleshoot the API Provisioning Failure Error
```

Reviewer 2: I think since the whole topic is called Troubleshoot, that word for every sub-section is unnecessary. Going with my judgement here.

> When you provision an API by using Anypoint Service Mesh, the asset (in Exchange) and the API instance (in API Manager) are not successfully created in Anypoint Platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you provision an API by using Anypoint Service Mesh, the asset (in Exchange) and the API instance (in API Manager) might not be successfully created in Anypoint Platform.
```

Reviewer 2: Done! Thanks!

=== Causes

This error can occur if you are attempting to:
 

> * Recreate an asset in Exchange that was more than seven days old before being deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Re-create an asset in Exchange that was more than seven days old before being deleted
```

Reviewer 2: Done! Thanks!

> * Provision an API with invalid values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Provision an API with invalid values
```

Reviewer 2: Done! Thanks!

=== Diagnose

> To diagnose this issue, run the following commands: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To diagnose this issue: 
```

Reviewer 2: Done! Thanks!

> . `$ asmctl api list`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Run the `$ asmctl api list` command. 
```

Reviewer 2: Done! Thanks!

+
The status of the API is displayed as `ProvisionCallFailed`. 

> . Run `asmctl api logs --name=<replace_with_api_name> --namespace=<replace_with_namespace>` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Run the `asmctl api logs --name=<replace_with_api_name> --namespace=<replace_with_namespace>` command.
```

Reviewer 2: Done! Thanks!

+

> The following output illustratates the provisioning an API with an invalid version problem:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following output illustrates provisioning an API with an invalid version:
```

Reviewer 2: Done! Thanks!

[source,text,linenums]
----
DATE                   MESSAGE
2020-05-29T17:12:36Z   Error provisioning ServiceInstance of ClusterServiceClass (K8S: "1c3b2100-5cdc-49ea-9423-dd7170e674b4" ExternalName: "anypoint-platform-api-instance") at ClusterServiceBroker "service-mesh-incluster-broker": Status: 400; ErrorMessage: Bad Request; Description: version: should match pattern "^\d+\.\d+\.\d+(-.+)?$" (ID: 49724b5d-7fad-4cc3-980e-695c2e47b383); ResponseError: <nil>
----

> If no information is displayed for the previous command, run `kubectl describe serviceinstances <replace_with_api_name> -n <replace_with_namespace>`. In the `status` section of the resource, you will find the error message explaining the issue. For example: 

Reviewer: Make this a separate, conditional step following the previous one:
```suggestion
. If no information is displayed, run the `kubectl describe serviceinstances <replace_with_api_name> -n <replace_with_namespace>` command. +
The `status` section of the resource displays an error message explaining the issue: 
```

Reviewer 2: Done! Thanks!

[source,text,linenums]
----
Error provisioning ServiceInstance of ClusterServiceClass (K8S: "1c3b2100-5cdc-49ea-9423-dd7170e674b4"
ExternalName: "anypoint-platform-api-instance") at ClusterServiceBroker "service-mesh-incluster-broker": Status: 410; ErrorMessage: Gone; Description: Error from Exchange: There is no asset matching given parameters. (ID: 79d0cc7f-9969-477b-816d-c822916c0290); ResponseError: <nil>' reason: ProvisionCallFailed
----

> In this case, the error is caused because you are attempting to recreate an asset in Exchange that was more than seven days old before being deleted. Because Exchange does not allow that operation, you must provide a new `assetId` to create a new asset.

Reviewer 4: A little doubt here. Aren't Exchange assets undeletable (through the UI) after the first 7 days?
And when deleted prior to that period, isn't that a soft delete, meaning the GAV can't be reused?

Reviewer: Has this ^ been resolved? If so, the text will change and need another edit.

Reviewer 2: I thought Engineering was done tech edits. This further delays the process.

Author: We can merge as it is @priyaayyar

Reviewer 2: Ok thanks Tomas!

> In this case, the error is caused because you are attempting to recreate an asset in Exchange that was more than seven days old before being deleted. Because Exchange does not allow that operation, you must provide a new `assetId` to create a new asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the error is caused by an attempt to re-create an asset in Exchange that was more than seven days old before being deleted. Because Exchange does not allow that operation, provide a new `assetId` to create a new asset.
```

Reviewer 2: Done! Thanks!

=== Solution

> To resolve this issue, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To resolve this issue:
```

Reviewer: But...did not the previous text already tell the audience that it must create a new asset?
Be sure that diagnosis and solution do not overlap or, worse, contradict one another.

Reviewer 2: No, we are good! Thanks! Done!

. Delete your API: 
+
`asmctl api delete --name=<replace_with_api_name> --namespace=<replace_with_namespace>`. 

> . After you fix the error, recreate the API.

Reviewer: But this does not provide the solution for the actual fixing of the error.
I would expect here...:
1. Delete
2. Fix (HOW?)
3. Re-create

Reviewer 2: Done! Thanks!

== API Provisioning Failure

When you provision an API by using Anypoint Service Mesh, the asset (in Exchange) and the API instance (in API Manager) might not be successfully created in Anypoint Platform.

=== Causes

This error can occur if you are attempting to:
 
* Re-create an asset in Exchange that was more than seven days old before being deleted
* Provision an API with invalid values

=== Diagnose

To diagnose this issue: 

. Run the `$ asmctl api list` command. 
+
The status of the API is displayed as `ProvisionCallFailed`. 
. Run the `asmctl api logs --name=<replace_with_api_name> --namespace=<replace_with_namespace>` command.
+
The following output illustrates provisioning an API with an invalid version:

[source,text,linenums]
----
DATE                   MESSAGE
2020-05-29T17:12:36Z   Error provisioning ServiceInstance of ClusterServiceClass (K8S: "1c3b2100-5cdc-49ea-9423-dd7170e674b4" ExternalName: "anypoint-platform-api-instance") at ClusterServiceBroker "service-mesh-incluster-broker": Status: 400; ErrorMessage: Bad Request; Description: version: should match pattern "^\d+\.\d+\.\d+(-.+)?$" (ID: 49724b5d-7fad-4cc3-980e-695c2e47b383); ResponseError: <nil>
----

> If no information is displayed, run the `kubectl describe serviceinstances <replace_with_api_name> -n <replace_with_namespace>` command. 

Reviewer: I'm still nervous that this text constitutes a "hidden" step (user action), but I accept your decision!

Reviewer 2: Converted it to a step. Sorry, I misunderstood that one. Done! Thanks!

+
The `status` section of the resource displays an error message explaining the issue: 

[source,text,linenums]
----
Error provisioning ServiceInstance of ClusterServiceClass (K8S: "1c3b2100-5cdc-49ea-9423-dd7170e674b4"
ExternalName: "anypoint-platform-api-instance") at ClusterServiceBroker "service-mesh-incluster-broker": Status: 410; ErrorMessage: Gone; Description: Error from Exchange: There is no asset matching given parameters. (ID: 79d0cc7f-9969-477b-816d-c822916c0290); ResponseError: <nil>' reason: ProvisionCallFailed
----

In this case, the error is caused by an attempt to re-create an asset in Exchange that was more than seven days old before being deleted. Because Exchange does not allow that operation, provide a new `assetId` to create a new asset.

=== Solution

To resolve this issue: 

. Delete your API: 
+

> `asmctl api delete --name=<replace_with_api_name> --namespace=<replace_with_namespace>`. 

Reviewer: Is the period part of the syntax?
```suggestion
`asmctl api delete --name=<replace_with_api_name> --namespace=<replace_with_namespace>`
```

Reviewer 2: Done! Thanks!

> . Fix the error.

Author: ```suggestion
. Fix the error by providing a new asset ID
```

Reviewer 2: Done! Thanks!

Reviewer 2: Done! Thanks!

> //Do we need to tell them how to fix the error?

Author: Comment spotted.

Reviewer 2: Removed! Thanks!
